added new env vars page and linked to headers (#1422)
prisma/docs: content/400-reference/200-api-reference/300-environment-variables-reference.mdx

---
title: 'Environment variables reference'
metaTitle: 'Prisma environment variables reference'
metaDescription: 'This page gives an overview of all environment variables avalaible for use.'
tocDepth: 2
---

## Overview

This document describes different environment variables and their use cases.

### DATABASE_URL

`DATABASE_URL` is used to connect to your database. The url format can differ depending on the database it is connecting to.
Prisma currently supports 4 types of database connectors, of which 3 use the `DATABASE_URL` environment variable. (SQLite sources a file path)

- PostgreSQL
- MySQL
- SQLite
- SQLServer

Example using a PostgreSQL connector:

```js file=.env
DATABASE_URL = 'postgresql://USER:PASSWORD@HOST:PORT/DATABASE'
```

See [Connection URLs](../database-reference/connection-urls) for a breakdown of each database connector.

### DEBUG

`DEBUG` is used to enable debugging output in the `Prisma Client`.

Example setting `Prisma Client` level debugging output:

```terminal
# enable only `prisma-client`-level debugging output
export DEBUG="prisma-client"
```

See [Debugging](../../concepts/components/prisma-client/debugging) for more information.

### NO_COLOR

> `NO_COLOR` strips colors from error messages. It's a truthy value.

Reviewer: There is also https://no-color.org/

```terminal
HTTP_PROXY=http://proxy.example.com
```

### HTTPS_PROXY

`HTTPS_PROXY` is set with the hostname or IP address of a proxy server.

```terminal
HTTPS_PROXY=http://proxy.example.com
```

### PRISMA_HIDE_UPDATE_MESSAGE

`PRISMA_HIDE_UPDATE_MESSAGE` is used to when checking if a `Prisma` update is cached. It's a truthy value.

```js
const shouldHide = process.env.PRISMA_HIDE_UPDATE_MESSAGE
```

### PRISMA_GENERATE_SKIP_AUTOINSTALL

`PRISMA_GENERATE_SKIP_AUTOINSTALL` is used to when checking if the `prisma generate` command does an auto install.

```js
if (!process.env.PRISMA_GENERATE_SKIP_AUTOINSTALL) {
    // Do Something
}
```

### SKIP_GENERATE

`SKIP_GENERATE` is used to determine if the `Prisma Client` generation should be skipped.

```js
if (!process.env.SKIP_GENERATE) {
    // Do Something
}
```

### BROWSER

`BROWSER` is for the `Prisma Studio` to determine which broswer it should open in. It's also used as a flag when starting the studio from the CLI.

```js
BROWSER=firefox prisma studio --port 5555
```

```terminal
prisma studio --browser firefox
```

See [Studio](./command-reference/#studio) documentation for more information.

### PRISMA_BINARIES_MIRROR

> `PRISMA_BINARIES_MIRROR` is used to create a mirror of the `Prisma` CDN so the cli/client will download from the users custom endpoint.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`PRISMA_BINARIES_MIRROR` can be used to specify a custom CDN endpoint to download the engines binaries for the CLI/Client. The default value is `https://binaries.prisma.sh`.
```
